fake news is not new we all know this
fake news has been around since the dawn
of the printing press perhaps before
fake news has been around since the town
crier fake news has been around since
the boy who cried wolf what we're living
through is an era when people as never
before are motivated to engage in this
this discourse because they feel
implicated in fake news the division
between you know the journalists and the
the audience has been broken down people
today may feel a sense of participating
in the the editorial role they're
morally implicated in fake news even if
it's just that you do your small part
you as as a viewer you as a reader you
post a story to your own Facebook
Timeline you post a story to your own
Twitter or other social media and then
your own relatives your own friends
judge you
maybe they send you a bunch of angry
emails or somebody saying hey why did
you post this story don't you know
that's fake news you know you post a
link to a YouTube video when you only
later find out that that particular
YouTube channel is associated with some
kind of political extremism or some kind
of misinformation campaign and you hear
back maybe from the people who love you
and care about you the most and maybe
from complete strangers um even if it's
just in this small way of sharing length
and seeing the consequences or buying
into a story and then later finding out
where its mix of half-truths came from
we as never before in the audience maybe
feel emotionally implicated if not
morally implicated in the production and
dissemination of news the implicit
question that underlies all this is
would the solution be worse than the
problem and this question has a very
different kind of moral tone if we're
directing the question towards Facebook
Corporation if we're directing it
towards Twitter Google YouTube if we're
talking about private companies taking
the authority taking the responsibility
selves to solve the problem or if we're
talking about the public sector for mo
government doable legislation let me
tell you this is not a problem that's
impossible to solve it's entirely
possible for governments to legislate a
requirement for journalists to do fact
checking and for them to legislate real
legal consequences if the journalists
fail to go through the proper procedure
and do that fact-checking but could the
solution be worse than the problem I see
this mostly discussed in a very
hypothetical and philosophical sense and
you know it's a philosophically deep
problem but in this video we're going to
look at a real world example take them
from Taiwan it's totally applicable to
the modern Western world even if you
know nothing about Taiwan you know
nothing but Asia don't worry you don't
need to to understand this video as a
footnote Taiwan really is a democratic
country it's much more democratic than
Canada or the United Kingdom they really
do have a parliament they really do have
assistant in some ways imitates in some
ways emulates in some ways surpasses the
European models that they had set before
them for imitation they also learned
from the experience of being briefly
colonized by Japan and then rejecting
the colonial Japanese tradition so
they've had a mix of Western and Eastern
influences starting up on the shallow
surface of this story let me warn you it
gets deep quick and there were
interesting little contradictions
throughout when I consulted different
contrasting versions of the story that
remind me even in a story that is itself
about fake news a story that is itself
illustrating the difficulty of having an
enforcing legislation that requires
factual accuracy journalistic
verification in fact checking it's very
difficult to accept anything that's
being reported as a fact CTI TV means
stream TV station here cgi TV was
yesterday again find one million time $1
that's over 30 thousand US dollars by
the National Communications Commission
this time
for failing to verify the information a
pomelo farmer gave during a political
talk show before airing it the news
story was seen as the reason the
Democratic Progressive Party won the
legislative by-election in Tainan a
traditional DPP stronghold by only a
narrow margin okay so starting on the
surface this is reporting a news
talk-show a political talk show
interviewed some pomelo farmers and that
this interview had a decisive influence
on the outcome of tightly contested
elections the news source here CTI TV is
owned by a company that's referred to
here as want want and some of you may
recognize the the brand name where you
might recognize the logo that I've got
here that the pictures they make snack
foods that are exported around the world
and there's definitely a prejudice
against the newspapers and TV stations
owned by this company there's definitely
a feeling throughout Taiwan that somehow
this is a crass for-profit corporation
in the production of news in contrast to
maybe the more scholarly and less less
salacious news sources that are out
there according to the Commission the
hosts of CGI TVs political gossip
program interviewed a pomelo farmer the
farmer said that the price of pomelo was
so low last year that 2 million tons of
the fruit had to be dumped into the Sun
one reservoir hmm other farmers standing
near the interviewee said that they had
not received the subsidies that they had
applied for the host turned the
statements from the interviewee into a
quote unquote news report without first
verifying the authenticity of the
information with another source the
Commission said so this is fake news
this is where fake news can come from
you can go out and you
interview some pomelo farmers they may
seem honest and simple and sophisticated
but maybe those pomelo farmers have
their own political agenda right maybe
they're trying to shift the outcome of
the election one way or another or maybe
they're just grossly exaggerating
because that's what they're inclined do
and what's your role what's your
responsibility as a journalist before
going to press before broadcasting with
this and can you be punished for failing
to show due diligence failing to take
those responsibilities seriously
could it be maybe that the government
feels this is a news source that's
critical of the government and there may
be enforcing the the legislation a
little bit beyond what was intended in
the letter and the spirit of the law to
begin with was it really the intention
of the legislators that the accuracy of
a claim reported from some farmers in a
sidewalk interview an interview on the
streets a spontaneous comment like this
was it really their intention that news
reporters would have to take the time
and check how many tons of fruit were
dumped from the reservoir what actually
happened
maybe maybe so and would would the world
be a better place if journalists
answered to a higher standard of
fact-checking of active research and
informed opinion it's like to say around
here CGI TV had only issued a correction
about the subsidies and did not correct
the dumping statement the Commission
said adding that this has severely
disrupted the agricultural market so you
can imagine there are things here I'd
like to fact-check too so I mean in the
first example we're being presented with
here there's a claim that this
spontaneous interview had a direct
impact on election outcomes and I doubt
that I'd ask the question okay so when
writing this news story now did you fact
check that it's easy to say almost
anything was a decisive influence over
who won and who lost
well can you can you verify that in the
same sense that the government is here
saying the journalists have to verify
these phat claims
can anyone verify the idea that this
particular interview with some farmers
really had a direct impact on the
outcome of that election I think that
would be very hard to verify it may not
be a matter of fact at all right what
about the the second claim at the end of
the quotation that there was a severe
disruption caused the agriculture
secretary yeah well allegedly allegedly
can you measure that can you give me a
figure
can you show me that really these
comments about what happened with
farming and farm subsidies and the price
of pomelos that it caused and not not
that the events caused it but that
they're reporting the inaccurate
reporting the fake news caused severe
disruption air culture maybe you can but
I'm skeptical and this is how we get
into a kind of infinite regress we get
into a loop of questioning well what
frequently is adequately fact-checked
the author of this article in the Taipei
Times does something interesting here I
think the author has intentionally made
the second example contrasted to the
first as absurd as possible to make the
enforcement of this law seem ridiculous
so meanwhile CTI TV news broadcast the
story on March 12th about the proposal
to raise pandas in gaussians Zoo in
which the reporter compared pandas with
Formosan black bears and concluded that
the former were cuter than the latter
the Commission said quote the news
report could mislead the public about
the right way to preserve and protect
wildlife okay
now I've got to call them out Taipei
Times this is fake news about fake news
even in raising this issue of journalism
integrity journalistic integrity and
fact-checking
I went ahead and check the facts that
that seemed a little suspect to me the
same way I'm saying you I don't really
know if I believe some of these claims
but you know the impact of the first
story well the second story I looked it
up a fact checked I saw several
different sources most of them in
Chinese not in English um the point of
the report was not to debate whether
panda
were cuter or less cute than this other
type of bear this journalist has gone
another way to make this the enforcement
of law seem seem absurd instead it was
actually raising the question of how
much money the government is wasting on
pandas and whether or not panda tourism
is really just a completely meaningless
spectacle that doesn't benefit or
educate people in any way even in the
title it's asking the question raising
pandas isn't this just burning money
isn't this just a waste of money and
then the next part of the the headline
here is asking is this without any kind
of educational benefit for the people
who go to see the Panda so people go to
see pandas just because they're cute
does that mean the government should
spend millions of dollars on pandas it's
raising this kind of question so again
I've got to call fake news on how this
story was reported the journalist I can
see what their motivation is but what if
we apply these same standards I mean
again so if the government is gonna take
away your freedom of speech is gonna
take away your right to make a somewhat
snarky report about you know the
monetary and educational value of having
a panda in the zoo because quote the
news report could mislead the public
about the right way to preserve and
protect wildlife well hey that's your
opinion I understand I understand but
what about the journalists in their
opinion what about the viewers know them
what if that's actually a really
important question ask and what if this
isn't something we can in a simple sense
challenge or debunk with the concept of
fact-checking
or factual accuracy so we got fake news
on fake news about the question of fake
news and then ultimately is there gonna
be a legislative authority that ends
this dispute so for those you can read
Chinese I've got on screen here I tried
to excerpt for you the relevant part of
the law and here it is thanks to Google
Translate and English programs shall
respect multiculturalism safeguard human
dignity and fulfill social
responsibilities broadcasting news and
comments should pay attention to the
principle of fact-finding
and fairness now Taiwan is a liberal
parliamentary western-style democracy
this is not nearly as authoritarian a
country as Communist China it's also not
even as authoritarian as Japan and yet
you can see in the broadness of the
mandate this gives the government to
censor and encourage certain kinds of
activities it's a little bit terrifying
does each and every news report have to
live up to this standard of respecting
multiculturalism safeguarding human
dignity and fulfilling social
responsibilities what if someone wants
to make a slightly snarky and snide news
report insinuating that pandas are a
waste of taxpayers dollars that the news
report is I watched it
I'd say that it insinuates that point it
doesn't really come to some kind of
resounding conclusion about it but it's
inviting the viewer to reconsider why it
is people think that pandas are worth
the kind of infinite budget this way
and to reconsider what is the meaning of
of just taking your kids to look at
something cute just because it's cute I
mean that doesn't really have
educational value so and so forth so I
think it's a meaningful question to to
raise but sure it's a little bit snarky
it's not really living up to these this
idea of I don't know well fact-finding
and fairness is it in fact even a matter
is it a matter of fact that's being
disputed here at all so we come down to
this question ultimately do you have the
freedom to suggest the pivots are a
waste of money or not um we live in an
era when fewer and fewer journalists are
in any sense professionals I am myself
regularly horrified by the low level of
erudition the low level of expertise the
low level of insight analysis and
research that goes into news
broadcasting at even the highest levels
I'm also horrified by what a large
percentage of what passes for news is
naked ly
again for one faction or another again
even in somewhat elite publications from
my perspective foreign policy has gotta
be the worst foreign policy magazine
seems like everything I read there is
just propaganda we live in an era when
there are small well-funded organized
interests that can pay to have stories
told their way and then there's a huge
disorganized morass of the general
public who have the power to complain
but who rarely have the resources or the
self-discipline to engage in active
research and to present informed opinion
the public in general can complain but
can rarely put together a convincing
case to support one course of action or
another and by and large what we see is
that the people who now make the news
for a living put less time less energy
and less inspiration into the news they
make then sincere hobbyists amateurs
people who just get interested in a
subject as volunteers and start looking
into it does anyone today really feel
intimidated by the caliber of news they
see on CNN Fox News even the BBC even
new services that receive textures might
does anyone really feel when they see a
news report let's say about Libya
current events in Libya Afghanistan Iraq
does anyone really feel after watching
such a thing that they couldn't do
better you couldn't do better in a few
days or a few weeks if you did a little
bit of the research yourself the news
it's lost its sense of authority in that
we in the audience now look at the naked
effect of its mirror authorship and we
know that most of the time we're looking
at something produced on a schedule
where just one or two people had just
one or two hours to put together a new
story from one or two sources
how will the news media adapt well on
the one hand we've
see how it adapts to changing economic
pressures and there's a really open
really meaningful question of whether or
not it should now have to change in
response to legislated pressures also at
what point will people start to question
the consequence of its sure even things
like public health consequences of
having misinformation broadcast in a
massive scale
when misinformation makes the leap from
social media to mainstream media or when
just the sloppy poor quality of
mainstream media coverage has terrible
consequences in the real world I think
that more and more countries will adopt
laws just like Taiwan and I think that
like the law here in Taiwan they're very
likely to legislate in terms of method
to say require that a journalist
contrast four different factual sources
in order to verify the facts so that
there's a formal legally required
process that to go through before
broadcasting it's certainly easier to
legislate a procedural requirement of
that kind it's easier to do that than is
to legislate a difference between truth
and fiction or a difference between
having social responsibility or a
reckless lack of social responsibility
ultimately the role of the news media
the role of political analysis is not
even educational in some cases it may be
destructive devastating horrifying it
may be meant to destroy the reputations
and lives of some people that are being
criticized to be blunt
not all news is good news some news is
bad and it doesn't seem to me possible
to take the legislation that I've just
read to you here in Taiwan and to apply
to any of those real-world situations as
you've seen it's not even possible in
Taiwan with this very mild regime of
censorship it's not even possible to
make some snarky comments about pandas
at the zoo being a waste of our money
[Music]